For those contributing the MERS toolkit, I wanted to warn you of a pervasive change that
I just pushed to the mars toolkit, in case you experience some bugs.
I changed the name of several pervasively used constants, to follow lisp convention,
and to get rid of annoying style warnings from the compiler. This affects
the following constants
We deferred these changes to a quiet time, which I've chosen to be mid summer.
I have changes these names in all files that automatically get checked out from the toolkit using
Eric's system.
I did not have privilege to push to three projects :
Eric can you tell me how I can push my changes to these system?
I would appreciate it if people would run their tests for
and other systems relying on temporal networks,
to ensure that I haven't broken your systems.
If you see a bug, it should be easy to fix, by ensuring the
above name changes have been made.
thanks for your help,
I renewed your CSAIL accounts as of 2pm today (Tuesday, June 30th).
Let me know if you have difficulties.
Hear is a photo from Hiro, of MERS JPL!
Rober soccer has a Robo Cup Logistics leagues, where robot teams compete to manufacture requested items.
It's quite cool, and relevant to Boeing.
This includes a gazebo based simulator for the logistics robot challenge, used for evaluation.
This might be a great simulation framework for our version of rmpl/enterprise for manufacturing.
Please check it out!
Hi simon,
Can you offer me your insights in the following?
The question is whether the following problem has added structure over the General pstn problem you and Andrew solve.
Suppose we have a pstn in which activity duration and start times are uncertain, there is a set of unary chance constraints, specifying the minimum probability that an activity is performed to completion (without being. It off), and the decision problem is to come up with a time window per activity, over which that activity is allowed to be performed.
This is Szymon's grid proble,me here he has a capacity constraint that limits how many activities can overlap.  Lets simplify by assuming to start that activities can't overlap, or more generally, can't o relapse when they have mutexs.
There is no explicit objective, but we want to solve all chance constraints if possible, and given this, do not want to restrict the distribution of an activity covered, more than necessary.
A second problem will be, if the chance constraints can't be all satisfied.  What is a fair, minimal relaxation to the chance constraints.
We need to define fair.  It could be, for example to minimize the maximum percentage increase in the inside all activity risk bounds.
Conversely, if activities consume less risk than specified, we might want this excess "fairly distributed" as well.
Thoughts?
Dan and Szymon,
Congrats on a nice article.
Andrew, thanks for passing along.
Hi Dan, Szymon and Peng,
Since we are at the end of the two year Tata project on energy,
its particularly key that we write up analyses for our scheduling algorithms
SPECIFICALLY wrt to the Tata A/B box grid concept.  This is what Rajeev was
asking for yesterday.
I would like each of you to do this for your respective scheduling algorithms.
We just need ball park figures to start, and then refine.
We need to make the case that our algorithms can operate within the
cost and performance constraints of this concept, using technology
available in at most a couple years.  For now we need to analyze how much of
a gap there is between our current algorithms and this target.
Loosely, Rajeev told us the that algorithms would run on a Raspberry Pi and need
to support roughly five activities.  We should look at scaling as a function of number
of activities and time horizon, as well as other metrics you identify.
What kind of quick analysis can you provide?
P.S I'll send out a separate email about clarifying the key selling features of each of your
algorithms.
Both of you have implemented RMPL extensions of Python, both of which are intriguing.
I would like you guys to discuss what you've done before Szymon leaves town.
Can you guys meet, possibly tomorrow, to discuss what you've been doing, and compare
approaches?  You can also start by email.
If Friday's enterprise meeting has no agenda, we could talk about it then.
As I understand, Pedro's approach is to call the combinators of RMPL from Python.
This is in contrast to jRMPL, where we parse and compile complete programs to our
declarative automata representation.
Szymon, what approach have you taken?  How does it relate to Pedro's approach?
You and I can meet with Szymon and Dan to go over their plan.
Dan,
Can you set up a time for that meeting?
Did the Tata team meet again today?
Do you know what Rajeev wants to be briefed on wrt control?
The control logic for June is, as I understand, the one Rajeev and Szymon worked out.  Is that correct?
In this case Rajeev has a better understanding then I have.
For post June, do you know if Rajeev is talking about summer plans, or plans for the next 2 years?
Looks like the three of us need to talk, and then we need a second meeting w Rajeev.
Dan,
Can you coordinate both?
Vijay Saraswat, a former colleague now at IBM, pointed me t
this weekend to a DARPA Program on Adaptive Software System
that he said was a natural for our group.  The description and
url is below.
Indeed the program is extremely relevant.  Unfortunately I didn't
find out about it until the week the proposals are due.  its hard for
faculty to keep up with opportunities, and we rely on colleagues
like Vijay to get the heads up on programs.
A similar heads up for the DARPA Edge-CT program allowed
Erez to champion a proposal for our biggest up coming contract.
I would like to solicit your help with tracking funding opportunities
for major program offices.
Please email me if you are willing to help out.
Great discussion . . .
I hope you don't mind if I bring a few of my students into the loop of our discussion.
Peng Yu and I have been working on preference in the context of constraint relaxation
problems, in support of  human-machine negotiation.  In this context we have explored
both CP-Nets as a model, and various temporal problem with preference formalisms.
Peng will be working at Nuance this summer; Ron Kaplan claims that he intends to turn
Peng into a linguist.
Jonathan and Szymon have been working with Peng to explore aspects of preference
learning, coupled to sentiment analysis.  Jonathan and Szymon helped get me up to speed
with Deep Mind just before our phone conversation on Friday.
Vijay is at IBM, and among other things, a pioneer in concurrent constraint programming.
We've been talking about preference learning in general, and as it pertains to learning
ethical principles.  You mind find the thread below interesting.
Vijay point me to a paper he recently published that maps CP Net inference to Data Log programs.
Our email thread also touches on extending CP Nets to hybrid preferences, and on learning
CP Nets using inductive logic programming.
Please take a look at the paper and add to the email thread if you have time.
Thank you for sending me your end of semester evaluations,
if you haven't done so already, please do so now (everyone).
Tomorrow we will be completing 6.834/16.412 grading,
and I will be reviewing your end of semester write-ups.
I will then be following up with a number of you, starting
Tuesday, to discuss and writeup your final evaluations.
Since others may have the same question about publications, I'm ccing the group.
Per my other email to the group, please email all missing publication information and corrections to Pauline for posting.
Each student is responsible to ensure that their publications are promptly posted,
that no posting is missing, and that each posting is correct and comprehensive.
Derek and Simon are responsible for performing the actual posting, and to bug group
members when they haven't done as asked, above.  Please consider needing to be bugged
a failure.
We are getting Pauline up to speed to take over Derek's role.
All, note that today I'm trying to write a proposal to fund group members.  This requires an up to date list of all of
the group's publications.  Since our publications are out of date, I'm spending much of the day searching the web
to find this information.
Each group member is responsible for updating publications immediately so that this doesn't happen.
David, good suggestions.  Where do you want this documentation posted?
Simon, would you please document the process of posting publications,
and have David and then Pauline try it out and give you feedback?
Can you do this this week?
MIT maintains a database (efpr) of all publications and other scholarly activities of the group.  This is separate from our group
publication list.
Attached is a report I just generated that lists the group's external publications (not theses, not internal reports).
Please check that this list contains all of your publications, and that the references are complete and correct.
Please email myself and Pauline right away about any discrepancies.
I am submitting this list for a proposal this weekend.
As part of the end of semester review process, please ensure that the group publication page is up to date.
Please Email Pauline now that you a have received this request,
Please Email Pauline again once you've complete the task.
This needs to be completed by end of week, and before I submit your evaluations.
Please do the following:
Check the group publication page to
ensure that ALL of your publications are posted,
that the citations are correct, in standard form and has no typos,
all materials have been provided (paper, slides),
that all links work correctly, and
that there are no duplications.
Email Pauline any corrections, missing materials, and reports of broken links.
Please remember to carefully review ALL of your past publications.
Mondays are good for me.  Like David, I'm off campus on Tuesday.  Note that I will be way for the next four weeks.
I'll be on a expedition off the coast of Southern Australia.
I'll try to jump out of our AA faculty retreat tomorrow if at all possible, and come to the meeting.
An article on our Scott Reef demonstration appeared last week on MIT News.
Here is the article:
Would you please post this on our web page, along with our other news articles?
Please  complete your semester evaluations this week.  Aero-Astro evaluations are due
no later than this Friday.  I request evaluations from all of you.
Remember that this is a thesis progress evaluation, not an RA evaluation;
Please report only progress against your thesis.
Please first reread the fall report I filled, before you write your evaluation.
As before,
restate the goals and SCHEDULE you set for the semester,
your progress against those goals and schedule,
any missed goals and schedule,
significant goals achieved that were not in your original plan,
your plan and schedule for the next schedule.
This semester I particularly want to evaluate how well you set and scheduled your goals
at the beginning of the semester, and then how well you followed and adapted
theses goals and schedule over the semester.  These are important skills.
Please pay particular attention to providing me with the information I need to make this assessment.
When you complete your evaluations, please email them to me directly.
Steve, Enrique and Spencer, please email Andreas as well.
If you finish early, please email them early.  I will try to process them in the order received.
hanks for letting me know about this opportunity.
Let me introduce you to Dan Strawser, Szymon Sidor, and Pedro Santana,
three graduate students in my group.  Dan, Szymon and Pedro are continuing
the energy work that Hiro and Wes started.
Dan and Szymon are working on a project in India, on creating micro-grids of
renewables for the segment of the population with no available electricity.
Dan is working on a risk market for distributing energy from the solar panels to the homes.
Szymon is working on scheduling and energy management within the home, similar to Wes.
Pedro is working on stochastic unit assignment and distribution for a more conventional grid.
I asked Dan to send you some material on his and the India work.
Can you tell me more about the different problems families that Lincoln might be interested in?
I'm writing for your advice regarding presentation distribution.  Szymon, as our in house Drop Box expert,
you might have the answer.
The VP of Volvo is very excited about our work, and has asked me to make my over view presentation
and corresponding movies available.
I used drop box as a quick solution.  Unfortunately, the folder is about 2.2GB (bigger than his quota),
and the presentation is 1.2 GB, or 800MB after a little trimming.
Is there a quick and simple alternative solution to distributing our presentation and movies?
Can the VP download the files from the drop box folder I share with him without synching it to
a Drop Box Folder (which sends him over quota)?
Perhaps i'm not using drop box correctly for this case.  I shared a link to the folder, which I gather gives
him write as well as read privilege?
Thanks, I also looked up the dropbox documentation as soon as I could get on line.
Links are designed for exactly what I want.  I was using the two sharing mechanisms
incorrectly.
Tata Motors has asked to talk with me.  They have a smart city project in India
in addition to their efforts in electrification that Dan and Szymon are involved in.
I would be interested in your ideas on how we might positively impact transportation
and the urban environment in places like India.  Please email your thoughts to all of us.
I thought I would pass along some thoughts on our mission experiences.
As you've seen in my previous emails, our validation has particularly focussed
on path planning for the glider, and that has gone well.  Fundamentally, AUV operations
is a path planning problem, hence you need a path planner at the foundation that solves the problem,
is fast and can plan in real-time.  Solving the problem means the right balance of modeling the environment,
safety margins and the objective (energy).  Eric has quickly adapted his path planner to find the right balance
of these requirements.
The approach we are taking is a different approach than what we might have envisioned, a priori,
of  coming in and validating each of our hammers.  Once
we got on the cruise, it became clear that our task was more to flesh out a new, rough hammer based on what we have
at hand.  When we get back to the lab we'll look at how to fold back in what we've learned from path planning
from pSulu, from Claudio and his student's work, and what Eric has done.
That said, each day we see a large number of vehicles of different types operating in the water at the same time.
Wave gliders, photo floats, the serious Sirious, the smaller Iver AUVs and the glider.
More often than not they are getting in each others way, and the ship, both in space and in time.  At the same time
our schedules are often not what we thought before hand.  There is lots of uncertainty, and lots of changes to adapt.
Ultimately, the paradigm shift in ocean sciences wil be to support these multi-vehicle operations effectively, and this will require
capabilities for risk-aware multi-vehicle planning and execution at multiple time scales.  We have a chance to help
create this paradigm shift.  Each evening we have 2+ hour meetings in which we envision different scenarios that the vehicles
could do together to perform science.  A barrier is that our appetite is ahead of our operational tools.
It would seem that our tools are poised to plan many of these missions.  At a basic level, our barrier is that we don't yet have
implementations of solid multi-vehicle routing algorithms, and what we implemented in the past was too specialized and ad hoc.
There are many fantastic algorithms and tools we can layer on top (e.g., Simon, Andrew, Pedro and Peng's work),
but at the core we need the multi-vehicle planner.  Once we have that foundation, I believe there is a lot of action and impact in
the risk-aware, multi-vehicle mission planning and execution arena.
I thought I would give you another update from Scott's Reef, give you a view on how the demonstration is evolving,
and give my view on how all your work fits in . . .
Eric, Rich, Aggelos and I have been quite busy on the Falcor, hence you've received less updates from us then you might wish.
Since this cruise is very expensive (~2M total), we need to be careful about what we validate during the cruise, versus
what we can validate and mature later, in simulation or at WHOI.
New issues and opportunities arise every day.  To be relevant we have needed to quickly adapt our methods to meet needs as they arise,
rather than the other way around.  Eric has done a truly outstanding job of adapting our technologies and coming up with
new solutions that meet these needs on a daily basis.  Its exceptional!
Based on our experiences, we have set three demonstration objectives: to demonstrate1) a relevant core path planner for safe operation of the glider,
2) insitu-replanning, and 3) multi-vehicle coordination through coupled scheduling, choice of contingencies, and path planning (offline, online).
We achieved objective 1 a couple times over the last few days, by operating the glider around several natural obstacle courses.  We think we
know enough about planning, to now go back to lab and evolve our risk-bounded path planners to meet the glider's needs.
We plan to demonstrate the second objective, dynamic re-planning, today on the glider.  Who knows what surprises will occur.  Communication drop
out and lag may be one issue.  This will give us the ability to be more adaptive to failure, an issue that comes up daily with the different vehicles.
Objective 3, multi-vehicle path planning and scheduling is the objective for the remaining few days of the cruise.  Thats a stretch.
Putting this planning capability together has required fluid changes to the planning problem specification, beyond what our GUIS and languages
can support.   Hence we have not exercised the GUIs and languages during the cruise (sorry).  Modifying and maturing them will be extremely
important to take our capabilities to operational use, but this is something best done after we've converged on the right formulation.  We can then
validate in simulation, and on later vehicle demonstrations.
We have also not been exercising our probabilistic planners / schedulers.  The path planning problems over the last several days confirms that
the right 3D path planning within bounded risk is a crucial capability.  We now have a better understanding of what that capability needs to do in
the case of glider operations, what deterministic variants of path planning are good starting points, and we have collected sonar data that we can
use to generate a topography for future simulation-based validation.
WRT temporal planning, the key issue is to demonstrate coupled temporal planning and path planning for multiple vehicles on relevant scenarios.
This is our goal for the next couple days.  We have already seen that the spatial and temporal uncertainty is quite high when operating multiple vehicles,
hence the need for scheduling of probabilistic STNs is key.  What is important for now is to demonstrate the feasibility of applying some level of
multi-vehicle cooperative temporal planning in coordination with 3D path planning and to perform it in situ.  We can then layer in the appropriate probabilistic scheduling and path planning algorithms as time allows.
In a parallel we have been solidifying our core constraint-system framework so that its easier for our different routing, scheduling and resource allocation
relevant constraint solvers can interact seamlessly together.  We have almost arrived at the point where we validate these solvers in combination:
Global Constraints, ITC (V1,V2), Probabilistic Scheduling, Resources.
Feel free to comment and ask questions, and Eric, Rich and I will reply as best we can.
Sounds like a great idea.  I've read the whole thread, but thought I would reply to your first email.
Two things:
Please take them up on their offer to provide the AR-Drone(s).  We definitely do not want to have to deal with
taking the Drone's through customs.
Can they provide multiple AR Drones, and can we have multiple people trying them out at the same time?
This lets more people have the experience.  Eric points out that if we allocate the Drones to different elevations,
then we don't have to worry about them colliding.
You probably haven't heard much from Eric or myself lately.  Sorry to keep you in the dark.
We've been coding sun up to sun down since we got on the ship, almost two weeks ago.
The first week had a leisure two hours each day of watching really bad movies, and the rest of the time coding,
but once we left Broome, we've trimmed away such frivolous activities!
The last two weeks have focussed on making the various pieces of the mission planning system
working separately, and then together.  We've been working on three things:  getting the integrated
single vehicle planner working and integrated with the glider; getting the risk-aware planner elemnts working,
and implementing our capability for multi-vehicle mission planning.
Currently, Eric is focussed on getting the integrated single vehicle planner work and integrated with the
vehicle telemetry and scripting language, in preparation for sea trials during the next day or two.
I'm continuing to push for the stretch goal of an OpSat for multi-vehicle planning with resources, in the hope
of having something for the tail end of the cruise.  After we have demonstrated glider sea trials with the
basic single vehicle mission planner, we will shift our focus to the risk-aware capabilities.  In the interim,
we are reviewing these components as well.
Now more about the glider experiment:
We are focussing on performing mission planning with the WHOI underwater glider.
We've completed our third day on the reef (Thursday, Friday and Saturday).
The weeks before the trial Angelos and Rich were focussed on nailing down a very slow leak in the glider,
caused by some aging epoxy around a florescence sensor, and an annoying behavior in which the "flight computer"
chooses to turn off power to the science bay whenever the vehicle surfaces to transmit
data.  Of course our processor is in the science bay, and its not fond of such interruptions.
Angelos and Rich have found work arounds for each.
The last three days they have focussed on getting the glider hardware operational.
Thursday Rich Camilli and Angelos took the glider via dinghy to a sand bar, to calibrate the
compass.
By the way, the sand bar is the only land mass in 100 miles, and is infested with poisonous snakes.
They found snakes, but received no bites.  The water here is incredibly beautiful.  Alas it is infested with
poisonous jelly fish, snakes, mollusks, fish and sharks.  Hence we are not allowed to touch the
water, and the operations crew needs to be careful when taking the vehicles out of the water, lest
they get bitten by something hanging on to the side of the vehicle.  This part of the ocean is one toxic evolutionary cesspool!
Yesterday the glider went out for its first voyage.  It performed very well, with just a bit of an overshooting on the transitions during
the yoyo pattern.
Today was the second voyage of the glider for hardware checkout.  With some tuning and re-balasting, it seems to be performing well.
All of these checkouts need to precede any tests with the planner.
With your help, Eric has been making heroic progress on pulling together the many pieces.  The last few days have had a particular
focus on getting data back from the glider, via direct and satellite communication, in support of re-planning.  Now Eric is focussed on
the final step of pulling the activity and path planner together, before testing the completed system on the glider.  Meanwhile, I've sent
emails to some of you to coordinate on the solver.
Tomorrow (Sunday for us) we aspire to begin testing the mission planner, first in hardware in the loop simulation mode on the glider,
 and knock on wood, in a sea trial.
We will update you as it goes!
Thank you all for efforts in running the course and group smoothly, while we are gone.
I hope all is going well.  The plan for Szymon for this semester included implementing the
risk-aware scheduling with resources algorithm, benchmarking it, and implementing it
within the Tata micro grid testbed.
Szymon, I would appreciate an update on the milestones that have been achieved thus far,
and the plan for the rest of the semester.
Great.  Building upon previous slides you've assembled, would you please assemble
a detailed set of slides on your technical solution for both scheduling and activity detection?
I would like to get you technical solutions written down, so we can review them more carefully,
and as a starting point for you to write up your technical work.
Please also arrange with Enrique to present this work at the group meeting in the next couple
weeks, once I've returned from Australia.
Excellent.  I'm gone the two weeks after Spring break.  The week
after that would be good, if the slot is open.
I hope all is going well.  What final decision did you making regarding the Tata Fellowship?
Are you ending the fellowship at the end of this semester, or continuing into the Summer and/or
Fall?
Good.  Please keep Derek and myself updated on your final summer plans.
Please coordinate with MIT EI to make sure that you fellowship is set up
for the summer.
The sad loss of Peng and Jonathan's laptops highlights the danger
of having data that is only local to the laptop.
The MIT Drop Box facility is an effective solution in many cases to both share
our data, and to ensure that it is continuously backed up off our local machines.
Please make sure that all of your data is being continuously mirrored, through drop box,
another cloud service, and through our group repositories.
In the case of our group repositories, this is only effective if you are pushing your data
on a daily or more frequent basis.
Some of you write your code and papers locally for months,  before pushing
your results to a could or repository, if ever.   This practice is not allowed in MERs.
When working on a draft paper, but it in the MERS group repository.  Same for presentations,
proposals and project reports.  When writing code, immediately set it up in Git, and push daily.
Shortly I will need to process summer RAships with Kim Peeples.
Please email to Derek by end of day Wednesday,
your summer plans and
whether you are requesting a summer RA.
Please organize these responses into one file (e.g., Excel Spread sheet) and then
forward to Kim and myself by end of day Thursday
Im currently in Australia, about to embark on a scientific cruise to Scott's Reef,
between Australia and Indonesia.
We will be demonstrating autonomous under water
vehicle concepts for the next few weeks.  The cruise then returns April 7th.
I'll rejoin the regular Tata meeting once I return.
While I'm asking your opinion, I would like your opinions about the autonomy field and field exam as well.  I would appreciate your answers to the following questions.  Again, send only to me.  I'll collate and send out.
A) autonomy field exam:
1) how well do you think the autonomy field exam is working today, and in the past?
2) what is working in the exam, and why?
3) what isn't working, and why?
B) autonomy field scope:
1) what are the essential topics that ALL autonomy students should know?
2) what are the essential topics that an autonomy student should be responsible for answering questions on in a field exam?
3) What should be the style of those questions?
4) what course or courses should a student be responsible for when taking the field exam?
Should it include 16.410?  Should it be just 16.410?  Should it include anything else?  Think about reasonable scope.
In answering question four, remember that a student must master the pre-requisites of a course, as well as that course.  Hence a student required to take optimal estimation must also have mastered state space and classical control.  Required courses should avoid long pre-requisite chains that students have not already fulfilled.
As a comparison, the control field requires mastery of three subjects, the three I just listed.  The first two I believe are already known by most control students entering aero Astro.
Next fall I will return to teaching 16.410/13 principles of Autonomy and Decision Making.
A perennial question for this course is breadth vs depth.  Some students and faculty like the fact that the course offers a broad view of decision making techniques, which can be later complemented with more focussed, in depth courses.  Some would like to trade breadth for depth.
I would appreciate it if each of you would send me an email in the next day, with your thoughts on this question.
Please DON't cc the rest of the group.  I'll collect your responses and email them out to the group, but I don't want your initial responses tainted by others.  This would result in giving me one idea, rather than many.
Great news.  Due to Erez and Simon's hard work and Erez's heroic leaderships,
We've won a large darpa grant in cyber security, with a great set of partners.  Grant writing is tough.  It's nice for the success to be with good partners, and to be sizable.
Please celebrate at a pub of your choice, and give the receipt for beer to Derek.
Peng has set up a summer internship at Nuance, in their research group on dialogue, natural language and AI.
An additional summer internship has opened up in their group that does work on integrated dialogue systems.
Are either of you interested?
They are quite interested in Jonathan's recent work.
Here is another news article about our work.  It over states how close we are to deployment,
but its interesting.
Thanks for taking care of the class change for this Wednesday.
Please note the change in location for the Autonomy Crash Course.
Your request has two parts.  First, is this viable, given your responsibilities as a Tata Project Team member,
and second, whether it makes sense at this point in your SM thesis completion.
Have you talked with Rajeev and Dan regarding the Tata project?  I just sent an email to Rajeev regarding this,
and am awaiting a response.
From the thesis research standpoint, at this point it is vital for you to narrow your thesis research focus, and to
add depth to your research.  You have a year to submit your SM thesis, and less time before your Tata fellowship
ends.  You have already been away a lot, far more than the typical graduate student.  A student typically does not learn to pursue
deep research if they have too many interests and side excursions.
How would you be away during the summer impact the Tata project as a whole, and your team mates?  Have you discussed this
with Rajeev and Dan?
How would a summer internship support the completion of your SM thesis?
Have you thought through how to support the rest of your thesis when the Tata Fellowship ends?
We can talk further after I've heard back from both you and Rajeev.
1) Please email me as soon as you can about when your Tata fellowship ends. Does it end at the end of the Spring semester,
or at the end of the summer?  This impacts whether or not you have MIT funding for the summer.  I will leave it to find out whether or
not the fellowship extends through the summer.
2) I received some concerns from the Tata team that you have mainly been doing "odd jobs" for the project, and that you are not delivering
a major component of your own.  Please talk with Dan and Rajeev about this.  Please plan to implement your scheduling and resource allocation
algorithm this spring, integrate it within yours and Dan's micro grid controller, and evaluate it on the micro-grid testbed.  This is a substantial component.
We need to complete UROP evaluations and credit assignments.  Please email to Pedro and myself your UROP evaluations and credit assignments
for hour Fall 2014 advisees.  Please complete as soon as possible, but no later than Friday.  Pedro, please pull the results into one file and send to me.
Please text me when you've sent the email.
Please take a moment now to make sure that I have listed below all papers that you have published our have submitted to a conference
over this year.
Please either email me that the list, for you is okay, or send me a set of citations similar to those below, for your missing publications.
I would appreciate this as soon as you have a chance.
Thank you for updating me with your missing citations; about a half dozen were missing.
All told, you had an amazing list of publications this year.  Great job!!
Below is my updated list.  I would appreciate it if you would do a couple more things:
1) If your citation is incomplete, or not in MIT's standard format, please email me an updated citation.
MIT's example citation format is:
  Example: Eagle, R.B. and P. Stroyka, “The Chekhov Process: A Probabilistic Model for Literary Events,” Transitions of the Russian State Society 33, November 1917.
2) Please contact Derek and Simon right away to ensure that your publication is posted, and that it has a complete citation (e.g., no missing page numbers).
I believe that many of the accepted papers are not on the web.  Your paper should always be posted on the web as soon as the final version has been sent out.
3) If the group web site is missing some of your MERS publications from 2013 and before, please email Derek, Simon and myself to update.
Thanks,
Pedro, will you coordinate, or tag a deputy?
Please read the following paper.  It presents an application of a general and pervasive method, called logic based benders d composition to optimal job shop scheduling methods.
I ask you to read it because of its close relationship to conflict-directed search, its effectiveness to solving optimization problems, and it's wide popularity.
This paper is relevant to all.  Specifically, it is relevant to Simon and Peng, who are looking at multi- vehicle routine;  Andrew, who is solving optimization problems using a master and slave using a similar method; Eric and Andreas who have been interested in opsmt; and David and Erez, where t burton is solving a strikingly similar problem.
As you know, this is the end of semester, and hence time for you to reflect on the semester.
All of you, please complete your evaluations, and send them to me by the end of tomorrow.
AA students needed to submit their evaluations by last Friday.  I request evaluations from all
other students as well.
Keep in mind that you are at MIT to learn to perform independent research. This involves demonstrating
the ability to set research goals, and to progress on those goals in a timely manner, with out the need for
micro-management.
As in past semesters this is an evaluation of thesis research progress, not RA progress.  1) Summarize succinctly
the goals that you set for your self at the beginning of the semester, 2) Summarize your MAJOR progress towards
these goals.  3) Reflect on what you did not achieve and why, and what new opportunities or insights have emerged.  4) summarize your goals
and plans for the next half year.
This week and next week is very busy.  Erez and I need to be away this Wednesday and Thursday, to support our
funding, some of you will be leaving soon for the holidays, and we have an ambitious course to assemble.
Given this, I'll need your support to assemble an insightful reflection of your semester, and to complete this process with me quickly.
I will be corresponding with many of you by email and phone to help complete the process.
The following papers could be interesting to many of you.  Alessandro solves disjunctive temporal problems under Uncertainty
by using an SMT solver, that combines SAT with a solver for difference constraints.
Congratulations to those whose papers were accepted to AAAI 15.  I know if David's T Burton paper
and Pedro, Spencer and Eric's hybrid learning papers.  If others were accepted, please let me know.
For those who did not get accepted, you are one step closer!!   You can have your paper re-reviewed
in three months, after revision.  Please see the email below.  ICAPS is, of course, only a week away.
Armando Solar-Lezama gave us a heads up on a talk one of his postdocs, Sicun Gao, is giving on SMT
involving non-linear arithmetic, and its application to hybrid systems.  This is quite relevant
to many of us!  Please see the abstract below.
Enrique, Sicun and Armando would also be excellent candidates for a group seminar,
if they were interested in presenting.
Any suggestions of MERS demos for the demo space?
Thank you for the good news.
I would appreciate it if the direct funding could go to:
Ellie Simon
Marlyse Reeves
We arranged for funding under the MIT EI - Tata Center initiative for:
Tiange Zhan
Akshay Ravikumar
My graduate students and I were not sure how to indicate this on the
UROP application form.
The Tata funds can not be applied to Ellie or Marlyse.
Please let me know if this can be arranged.
Thank you for your time,
Hi Dan and Szymon.  Would you please follow up with Ann regarding her Urop question.
Rajeev and I had confirmed with Rob Stoner that he had funds set aside for UROPs to work on Tata projects.
Please take a look.  Fellowships are very good opportunities in this funding climate.  They may be for U.S. citizens only.
We have good connections with NASA.  Andrew received a nasa fellowship offer last year.
Thanks for passing these URLs along.
I was able to download the ICAPS 2004 paper, . . . .
but there is a $30 charge for downloading the CP paper.
Can you see if you can download it, and if so, but it in my MERS inbox folder
under "Resource Envelopes"?
As we discussed, we already committed to two UROPs for direct funding to work on the UAV IAP course.
The UROP office is unlikely to support me for more than two direct funded UROPs.  So expect for them to
be charged to Tata.  Its possible that Rajeev hasn't hit his quota yet.
Hi Gang,
This semester I am having the group focus on their software development skills
(last Spring we focussed on defining and delivering a research result, and last Fall
we focussed on publication).
To jump start this in the short term,  I've talked with several of you about providing an implementation result for September 31st.
I've listed you below.  Please email me confirmation of your assignment, and send me a short
description of what you will demonstrate on September 31st.
If you are not listed below, then please email me, proposing a software capability that you are
focussing on, and what you will demonstrate by September 31st.
TBurton/Pike Executive, on air vehicle simulator:
- David, Steve and Eric.
Proposition Monitoring based on hybrid models.
- Pedro, Spencer and Steve.
RMPL -> XTPN -> Lisp TPNs
- Erez and Peng.
pSTN scheduling
- Simon and Andrew (haven't talked with Andrew yet).
Chekov episode execution -> oMPL
- Enrique and Andreas
Micro Grid control (capability for end of September to be defined
- Dan and Szymon
Dialogue manager with "sentiment analysis"
- Jonathan, Peng  (Jonathan, define scope for end of September).
For those who didn't reply, or for which I've requested follow yo, please reply now.  The deadline is sept 3oth.
Eric's work on hybrid estimation is quite relevant as well.  I suggest you have Eric join in.
We just finished a NASA proposal and an AFOSR white paper, thanks to the efforts of
Simon and Peng.  Both focus on human-machine trust through risk-sensitive planning
and dialogue management.  Please talk to Simon and Peng if you want to see the details.
Feel free to look at the proposals to see our story, but please do not distribute them beyond the group.
Pedro's work is leading to a joint proposal with NICTA on contingent probabilistic planning with risk bounds,
with power restoration for disaster response as one example.  This should be completed by the end of the week.
Andreas and Eric (hopefully) are helping to write a proposal joint with Woodshole and ITA Brazil on
risk-sensitive, goal-directed adaptive sampling methods for commanding large fleets of autonomous underwater gliders,
for persistent ocean monitoring.  This proposal is in progress.
Finally, Erez and David have offered to begin writing a risk-sensitive planning proposal for DARPA applied to Cyber security.
Proposal writing is a necessary and important part of research, and hence key to your training.
Proposals are a good way to articulate and shape your long term visions.
I look forward to others participating in the future.  Please let me know of your interests.
Thanks to all of you for helping out.  This represents some really great work!
The Siri AAAI invited talk was inspirational.  Take a look when it's posted.  It's worth a group view, with popcorn.
The following is a symposium that is both very interesting and very relevant to us.
The symposium shows the richness of temporal reasoning, by combining temporal constraints,
temporal logic and data bases.
Excellent questions. As background, Are you attending ICAPS?  No, correct?
Please go ahead and plan to attend AAAI.  It will be more expensive, since your
registration is late, so in the future plan ahead, and apply for student travel grants.
Please talk with Derek about how you should make your arrangements, and coordinate
with other students (they might be planning a road trip).
There should be a grant fund associated with your Tata fellowship that you will charge your
conference to.  Dan can show you the ropes.
For drop box, you or they will cover your air fare, room etc., right?
This is an excellent set of summaries.
For the first article, do you have a concrete suggestion of where we want to leverage these ideas, and how we should alter out interface between activity planners and lower level planners?
This is a very good precedent for other group members who attend conferences in the future.  Please discuss with Erez and fellow team members when you return.
Adding to Andreas, email ...
Please also provide your write-ups to Howie.
Before sending us your writeups, please select two other group members to look over your writeups and give you feedback.  Leave enough time for feedback and revision.
Please make sure your writeups are of high quality, and are reflective of at least the number of hours you signed up for thesis credits.
Finally, note that this exercise is focussed on your research, not your RA activities.
Thank you all for your initiative on this!
I agree to be Szymon Sidor's advisor.
I have been away on sabbatical in Australia, but am heading back now,
and will be at MIT in a few weeks.  In my absence, Andreas Hofmann is
meeting with Szymon, to help converge on his thesis topic.
Please let me know if you need anything else,
This is to let you know of my plans for June.
I am heading back to North America a couple weeks earlier than originally planned.
Tomorrow morning I will leave Australia for Texas and the West Coast.
Next week I will be meeting with Exxon, together with Rich Camilli of WHOI,
to talk about the role of robust autonomy in large scale under water
autonomous mapping and survey.  I will then head to Northern California,
to talk with Nuance, about how our work might fit into a future generation Siri.
Next weekend I will head to Woodshole, and will spend a week and a half with them,
discussing plans for incorporating our work onboard underwater glider missions,
and for planning autonomous underwater missions for oil disasters.
Two and 1/2 weeks from now I'll be back in lab.  Sylvie Thiebaux from NICTA will be
visiting us that week.
Three weeks from now many of us will head up to Portsmouth for ICAPS.
Once I'm in North America, it should be much easier for us to talk by phone.
Next week will be hectic, but then it will be easier.
Hopefully my iphone will be operating again (617) 233-7664.
Please feel free to call me then.
I look forward to seeing you, and to being back in lab.
Thank you for your email.
When we met last February we sketched a plan for you, and you were supposed to coordinate with Dan and Peng on your plan,
You should have been spending about 30 hrs a week during the semester on this plan.  You were being paid to do so.
 What did you accomplish this semester in the task we outlined, and what coordination have you had thus far with Dan?  What about Peng?
I talked to Andreas some about your progress, and asked Andreas to meet with you and Dan, to understand what you've accomplished, and what your current plan is.  I'm flying back from Europe to Australia over the weekend.  I'll then follow up with Amdreas to better understand your research accomplishments for the last 3-4 months.  Anything you can send the two of us regarding your accomplishments would be appreciated.
I'm pulling Andreas into the loop on this.  Andreas is next door to you, and offers excellent advice.
I will be back at MIT in a month, until then its best to have weekly dialogues with Andreas.  I talk to
Andreas once a week, and am talking with him about your work and the Tata project.
I appreciate that it is important for a graduate student to be motivated to do good research.
If a graduate student wants their tuition and stipend to be paid for by a sponsor,
then the student needs to provide good value to the sponsor.
At the moment, neither is being achieved for you.
If you don't like the micro-grid project, then you could either shift to a TAship or you could
pay your own tuition.  If we don't need to sell your work to a sponsor, that opens up opportunities substantially.
The reality is that securing funding is extremely time consuming, and what sponsors are willing to pay for is limited.
If you want to be supported by Tata, then you need to provide value back to the micro-grid project.  Since that
project started last September, this is urgent.
Note that a TAship or sponsored research is 20 hours a week, while Thesis is 12+ hours, basically as much time as
you want to put into the thesis.  While we try to find a synergy between Thesis and TA/RAship, they are really two things.
You might find it better spending 20 hours a week, TAing or helping Dan on the Tata testbedding activity, and make your thesis
something totally different.
FYI When I get back, we will be pushing the cooperative air and underwater vehicle activities.
I will be putting together a cooperative UAV "lab course" to be taught to undergraduates during January.
In addition, we will be working on autonomous control of underwater gliders at Woodshole Oceanographic
Institute, starting in July.
Please give Eric your full support on this.
Eric has been working with me hard on my coding practice (and vice versa ) over the last month and a half.
Please remember that you need to meet with Howie and Andreas,
to discuss your end of semester review.  We need to do this smoothly,
since there isn't much time, and long distances involved.
Its very important that you schedule your meeting during the time that they requested.
Asking for exceptions will burden the process, so please avoid if at all possible.
Please ensure now that you have coordinated with Howie or Andreas for this
week's meeting, this is your responsibility.
I appreciate your help,
Please offer a round of congratulations to the extended Robotic manufacturing team.
Word across the globe is that you did an outstanding job.
This is particularly challenging, as you approach the last week of classes.
I hope that you found the camaraderie and the insights gained from demonstration
and hardware worth your considerable amount of elbow grease!
Leah forwarded to me the following announcement, about a  Massachusetts
Transportation Expo, outlining energy related projects.  Participation is free.
Those of you interested in energy and transportation might be interested
in attending.
You are coming up to the end of the semester, I can imagine how busy it is for you!
Howie and Andreas will be writing up your evaluations this semester, with some input from me.
Your graduate evaluation meetings will occur *next* week.  All students will meet with Howie or Andreas.
Please look below for who will be evaluating you, this should be consistent with last semester.
No later than *** 8am Wednesday, May 14th, *** please email your *** accomplishments *** to Howie/Andrea,
this can be your department questionnaires plus augmentation as you see fit.
Howie will be meeting with his students on *** Thursday, May 15th ***.
He will be posting a signup sheet on his door for those meetings.  Please sign up, and coordinate as need.
Andreas will let his students know his plans for their meetings, Andreas and team are very busy with Boeing right now.
Its likely that Andreas will want to meet on *** Wednesday, May 14th ***, when he normally visits MIT.
Please coordinate with Andreas directly.
Submitting your evaluations:  I've already submitted Advisor evaluations for EECS SM/PhD students.
Howie and Andreas will complete AA evaluations by W May 21st.
Dan, please let Andreas know what Mech E requires.
Thanks for a productive semester!
Andrew found out this week that he received fellowship offers from both NASA and NDSEG.
Both are excellent, prestigious fellowships.  Please offer Andrew a round of congratulations
(and perhaps a round of beer) for this excellent accomplishments.
Its now time to plan for AAAI.
If you are a presenting author on a AAAI paper,
or have an acceptance to the AAAI DC, etc,
then please coordinate with Erez and Derek,
to make your early registration right away.  Please
do not wait until the last moment.
For others who would like to attend.  Please
talk to Erez about your interest and your reason for
attending.  Also let Erez know about other interests.
Where possible, we try to support one conference per person,
with the expectation that thats attendance to present a paper,
attend a DC, or to bootstrap your research.
Here is the latest from Terrafugia.  Its very similar to the dual vehicle animation
Boeing gave us, but with a real vehicle!
For those involved in the Boeing Review,
Attached is the final schedule for the Boeing review.
I've asked Peng to help with confirming your participation.
Our presentation and Demo is Wednesday, May 7th.
If you are supporting the demo, please confirm your availability with Peng.
The Boeing dinner is Tuesday, May 6th at the MIT Museum.
If you are supporting the demo and would like to attend, please let Peng know immediately,
and we will see what Boeing can support.
Erez has nicely pointed out that summer conferences are upon us.
I've asked Erez to collect from you the conferences that you want to attend, so that we can decide who we can support.
Please email Erez right now, any conference that you would like to attend, and the role that you will be playing in that conference
(presenting author, contributing author, demonstration, doctoral consortium, workshop presentation) along with the
actions you have taken to seek travel support.
You should be thinking nominally in terms of one conference a year.  While looking for alternative avenues for travel support,
to stretch these funds.  Specifically,
We try to provide support for one conference per person, with preference to presenting and contributing authors.  When possible,
I try to have new PhD bound students attend a conference early on in their career.
Typically each RA grant has allocated support for one conference travel per year, alternating between the US and abroad.
Each fellowship is different, many do not include travel support.
Since travel is expensive, and some of you have been prolific publishers, we try to keep down our costs, through pre-registration,
and cheap travel and accommodations  (e.g., a group house rental).  I also encourage people to apply to Doctoral Consortiums, which
usually include a travel grant.
Currently many grants are coming to an end, or are transitioning, hence its a good time to be careful with our travel expenditures.
Please support Erez in helping me to sort out our travel plans, and to document our process for the future.
Can you find out the level of funding that junior researcher offers?  This is run by the doctoral consortium chairs.
It seems likely that its only $100, which seems extremely low.  I've asked the ICAPS Council why the amount is
so low.  The DC chairs are listed below.
Many of you are now receiving feedback on your ICAPS and AAAI submissions.
Collectively you are receiving unprecedented levels of success for the group.
As I said before, we've often had one student who is prolific.  The difference now is that
all of you are working hard on your publications.
Your successes are most obvious in the acceptances -- Simon and Peng, and James and Eric,
had their AAAI papers accepted -- and in the honorable mentions -- both for Erez's team,
and for Peng and Simon.  Several of these have received reviews of being ground breaking!
This is impressive, given how tough reviewers can be.
It is important to note that the success underlying your "near misses" (rejects) are just as great.
Our acceptances tend to be in areas where we have a smooth (but not easy) route into publication
(e.g., dynamic scheduling).  The near misses are in places where we are breaking into new
sub-disciplines, or where we are bridging between sub-disciplines, one unfamiliar.
Forging into new territory is particularly difficult.
For example, Pedro and Spencer's hybrid learning paper was very well received, but fell short on
experimental results.  What we missed there was the AI machine learning standards for experimentation,
accessibility to that readership, and related work in that community.This is different from the controls
community, where Pedro is comfortable.
Carlos Foster and teams' paper was a bridge between vision, planning and robotics.  The paper
was considered innovative in terms of its new problem domain, but did not yet provide the technical innovations
required by those communities.  Again AI and Robotics / Vision have different criteria.
We are waiting to hear back on David's paper, but David's challenge has been to bridge
between the definitions and action models of planning within the PDDL and model-based execution communities.
Andreas' journal paper on Chekov has the challenge of bridging the AI communities desire for technical rigor
and extensive experimentation, with the robotic field's desire for seeing demonstration on real hardware.
A increase your chance of getting accepted the first time in the future, a couple lessons are worth noting here.
First, the papers that did the best in the end were papers for which drafts were completed well in advance
of the conference deadline (on the order of months), were iterated upon extensively, and had significant
experimental results and related work.
- finish your draft two months ahead and iterate.
- use those two months to experiment, experiment, experiment.
   - benchmark against the state of the art.
   - benchmarks need to be on a large population of examples.
   - experiments most demonstrate or refute the central claim of your paper.
- do a very through literature review and cite ALL relevant work.
Second, writing a paper in a new sub-discipline is like going to a foreign land.
You are doing something bold, and shouldn't be discouraged by first time rejection,
the reward when you succeed can be even greater.
Learn the language, and make sure you get your inoculations.
- know your audience and write to it.
- read lots of papers in your target discipline, and extract from these readings the
   problems that they care about, the methods they rely upon, the evaluation methods they use,
   and the vocabulary they use.
- Write in a style that is accessible to the target audience.
- Cite relevant work in that community.
- Meet their evaluation standards.
I suggest you guys order up some pizza to celebrate, and pass around some lessons
learned.  MERS is buying (Derek, did you here that?).
Some of you might be interested in the AI and Robotics workshop at AAAI.
Better is the Planning and robotics workshop at ICAPS.
I just found out that Andrea Censi, from Richard Murray's group at Caltech,
will be giving a talk basically NOW (Wed, April 9th) at 10 am in 33-206.
Can any of you attend and report back to me what you learned?
I need to assess Andrea's work.
Andrea's work is interesting.  He controls a robot in order to learn a model,
that is subsequently used to perform different task.
Its certainly relevant to Spencer, Pedro and Steve, and would be fascinating
to many of you.
His advisor, Richard Murray, is a great guy, and one of our collaborators
on the NASA-Caltech project.
I wanted to update you regarding your second half of semester plans.
The purpose of a graduate degree is for you to learn to do
independent research, while weaning your self off of detailed guidance,
and instead moving to guidance at increasingly strategic levels.
At the lowest level this means setting your own goals and managing
your time and milestones.  This then moves up to managing your overall
thesis.
Research is a team sport, hence you want to learn to effectively support
your peers and to listen to the feedback of your peers.  Later in your career
this will take the form of joint proposals, conference reviewing, mentoring and managing,
supporting your manager and the likes.
For this semester we have been focussing on having you set a clear
research objective, followed by constructing and executing a plan
for achieving that research objective, including theory,
implementation, empirical validation, and scholarly writeup within
the scope of the semester.
Keys to your success at the end of the semester includes focus,
scope, time management and sufficient time dedicated to your
research.
Our intent for the second half of the semester is to have you learn independence
towards achieving your objectives.  You should seek ways to help guide
yourselves, guide each other, and seek guidance, in order to achieve your semester end goals.
Please think out of the box.
I will focus my attention on students completing their theses this
semester, but will otherwise give you independence, while I use
the last bit of my sabbatical to refresh my coding skills.
Andreas, Howie and I have arranged that they will advise you for the
second half of the semester, will review your end of semester outcomes,
and will fill out your end of semester evaluations.. Andreas and Howie
are attending to colds and family matters at the moment.
Andreas plans to send you an email with further directions.
This morning you should have taken your next step, by reporting out
on your mid-semester outcomes.  Use this to carefully assess your progress,
and think through your best plan to produce your research outcome, including
scholarly writeup, implementation and evaluation.
Please enjoy the increasingly good weather!
Can the Baxter use two arms at the same time (for example in two disjoint workspaces?).
Please give Peng and Simon a round of applause for their honorable mention at ICAPS,
for their work on restoring feasibility in temporal plans that have proven to be too risky.
It looks like another congratulations is in order!
Please also joining me in congratulating Erez, for receiving an honorable mention for his
ICAPS paper on Goal Recognition.  This is certainly a MERS first!
Thanks for your Interests.
I don't it you an email the group.
For a letter of recommendation its important that I have lead time, typically at least two weeks.
By when do you need the letter submitted?
I have not worked with you yet, hence my recommendation would not carry much weight.
Is there someone that you have interacted with in the past, who can write you a strong recommendation?
Finally, if you still want me to write a letter, and you've given me sufficient lead time to write the letter,
then please send me a series of bullets that highlight your major accomplishments, relevant to the goals
of the program.
You should also think through whether or not it makes sense for both of us to spend time on this application.
You don't have an aerospace background, and the program might have constraints on the nationality of
the participants.  Erez raised this as a concern.
I would be able to write a brief note, but we haven't worked together enough to write a long letter of recommendation.
Can one of your other recommenders write a letter for you?
In talking with Pedro and Erez, it sounds like it will be hard for non-US citizens to attend.
Give that you don't have relevant experience, I imagine that it will be difficult for you to get in.
Well, I wrote to you, because you are the only person I know that i had some interaction with and that has aero astro background (and in your case a very strong one). Brief note is better than nothing, if you decide you have time.
The following is a very intriguing opportunity.  any takers?
Nice!
Professor Francesca Rossi will be on sabbatical next year in Cambridge, at Radcliffe, and will be interacting with us on joint research ( constraint programming, preferences, multi-agent systems, ...).
Francesca is looking for an apartment (probably 2 room).  I would appreciate it if any of you would email Francesca with your advice about where to look for postings,  price estimates for 2 rooms, good locations for apartments, and any other leads you might have.  I've cced Francesca in this email.
And hopefully having some fun...
I won't be able to dial into the MERS group meeting today.  I've been up writing for a proposal Howie is spear heading,
and am just turning in now.
I would love a short update of what transpired, and any slides presented.  I believe the MERS OZ group is presenting,
so I'll catch up with them in person!   Please don't be shy to give each other feedback in my absence.
This is Peng's last day in Australia, so you will see him back in Boston soon.  Erez and David just joined us in
"sunny Australia," and Eric will be off soon for a New Zealand adventure.
I suspect that the maintaining equipment and vehicles would be a natural cross over.  I know that the air force is
concerned about the cost of maintenance when turning around UAVs and Andreas has talked about the role
of robots for You guys had an amazing showing for the recent AAAI conference deadline, even beyond the amazing showing that you
guys had at ICAPS last fall.  Between the two conference deadlines, the publication rate you have demonstrated is unprecedented
in the group's history, I am very proud of you!
Compared to ICAPS, in general I believe that this time around your drafts matured earlier than during the AAAI deadline,
and although some of you had near misses, overall those near misses reached a high level of quality, and are in a good
position for the next conference.  It also seemed that you were working very effectively as a team, giving each other feedback.
I've given several of you feedback on different parts of your drafts, and will continue to do so, interleaved with work at NICTA.
With many of you visiting in Australia, there is more fun, but a bit less reading time.
Congratulations to all of you on a job well done!logistics support.
I am attempting to approve Szymon Sidor's account.
Szymon is a new student in CSAIL, starting this semester.
Would you please go ahead and accept this email as my approval of Szymon's account?
He needs the account urgently to begin his work.
I will then try to sort out whether or not my issue is intermittent,
or something that I need to fix.
Glad to do so.  Hopefully they will do the clearance.  I seem to be having a "certificate" problem,
which will take some time to sort out.
The first paper, below is the one that Menkes presented at IJCAI in China last summer.
The second paper I haven't looked at, but looks like it includes Pascal's approach to
stochastic optimization and multi-stage optimization.
Hassan, who is next to Menkis, is an expert in Mixed Integer Non-Linear Programming.
We've been constrained to working in a Mixed Integer Linear world.
Here are some nice slides from Hassan on MINLP for convex problems.
Attached is  a set of tutorial slides on power systems modeling, by Carleton Coffrin.
This is completely up to you.
Presumably the week of Feb 2nd is your first week.  If so, missing that week is okay, since you will only have one lecture that week per course, which are usually
introductions.  You wouldn't want to miss any of the second week.
Since Sylvie has a large energy group, you will find lots of people to interact with while you are here.  If you read up on their papers before hand, we can discuss
potential connections, and we can get the ball rolling before you arrive.
From your interactions with Carleton the last two days, it sounds like you will want to meet with Hassan as well.
Before booking any travel involving Australia, please confirm with our fiscal officer, Max, and your pocs within the MIT EI Tata Program,
that the Australian segment of your travel will be covered within the guidelines of your fellowship.
The travel to Australia supports the Tata effort in two ways.  First, you and Szymon will be meeting with me (your advisor) to coordinate your
Tata research for the semester.  Second, you will be meeting with researchers at NICTA on methods for managing intermittency in the power network.
Szymon's first priority is to get to the US for the Spring semester.  Szymon has already delayed
by one semester.  We cannot have Szymon being significantly delayed from the start of the Spring semester.
My understanding from Szymon is that it is too risky for Szymon  to try to go to India, then Australia and finally to the US.
Instead, Syzmon had planned to NOT go to Australia.
Is this correct, or have I mis-remembered?
I understand that Dan Strawser's travel, as outlined below, will be covered under his Tata Fellowship,
including his visit to Canberra, in support of his energy grid research.  Given this,  I approve Dan's travel plan.
Szymon.  Dan will be visiting me in Australia for a short period before the semester begins,
on the way back from India.  Dan should have contacted you to see if you want to visit me at
the same time.
Please let Dan and I know right away if you will be joining us.  I'll then need you to coordinate with
Dan to make arrangements for your air travel and accommodations.
In addition, please email Dan and I right away, reminding us of your citizenship, wrt Visas.
If you will be visiting, I will need you to apply for an Australian Visa right away.  Below is the advise that
we received on Visas for US citizens, and for students from China, Brazil and Israel.  I'm hoping that this same
advice applies for Eastern Europe as well, but I can't be sure.
I hope that you will be able to join us,
Thank you for your reply.  Arriving in the US for the start of the semester, and attending the India trip are your top two priorities, in that order.  Visiting Australia is a distant
third, and is quite optional.
If Australia seems like one too many things, then please drop it.  If you have to mail in your passport, that will
be too much.
If the application is electronic, then that might be okay.  However, only if they give you a quick response, since you need to
book your air plane ticket now, to ensure that the costs are reasonable.
I'll leave it to you and Dan to sort this out.  Do please let me know as soon as you make a decision regarding Australia, so that
we can inform our Australian hosts of your plan.
If possible, I would like you to attend the India trip.
Its roughly January, 14-27th.
Dan Strawser can help you with logistics, along with Reja, who is coordinating the team.
You should talk to them about Visa and logistics.
I look forward to you joining us,
That's fine.  Graduate students usually return by the end of the first week of January, to progress on research outside of classes, and to enjoy the more relaxed pace.  Research assistants have 3 weeks of vacation a year, plus 10 holidays.
Most entering students like some time to settle into Cambridge and their research homes before classes start.  This isn't mandatory when you start.
Its for you to decide.
I sent a follow up email to Arunava Majumdar and Kurt Adelberger, at Google, about having
you work with them between the end of your internship at Drop Box, and before you begin
at MIT.  Are you still interested in this?  If so, please email me your resume (Curriculum Vitae)
and your time constraints (when you could first start, and when you need to leave, for example, to
MIT).  I hope it is otherwise going well for you.
I've attached Szymon's CV below, and have cced Szymon on this email.
Szymon has also been a Google intern twice in the past, so you may have
additional information about Szymon within Google.
Assuming that an internship looks appealing to you ...
Szymon would need to be at MIT by the end of January, to start the Spring
semester, and we understand that Google internships are at least 12 weeks.
If so, something like November 5th to January 24th would work well with
Szymon's constraints.
For your information, Arun is a VERY senior person in energy.  As I understand,
until last year he was the Undersecretary of the US Department of Energy (the number two
person in charge of Energy for the US), and the director of the US Advanced Projects Agency
in Energy (ARPA-E).  Before that he was, I believe, a research director at the Lawrence Berkeley
Energy Lab.  Interning with him should be an amazing experience.
Yu in no way offended.  From experience I know that it's good to know who you are talking to.
I hope that all is going well with you.  As we discussed,
the energy project that you will be working on is funded by
Tata in India, as part of the MIT Energy Initiative (MIT-EI).
Support is administered as a Tata Fellowship.
The directors of the Tata Program are interviewing all
students that we've selected for these fellowships.  This is an
opportunity for them to explain the program, to answer
any of your questions, and to check the match.
Your meeting will be with Charlie Fine or Rob Stoner.  You may receive
an email in parallel from Patricia Reilly, cced here, setting up your meeting.
For their meeting they need background information for you, either a curriculum
vitae, or your MIT application.  I would appreciate it if you would send this
information to Patricia and myself.  Your MIT application is
no longer accessible to me.
Let me know if you have any questions.
Attached are a few of our papers on planning within risk-bounds,
applied to control of buidlings and the grid.  Two of these papers
are distributed algorithms.  These papers generalize upon continuous
optimization, since energy management is naturally a continuous problem.
A more general set of publications can be found at
There are a few inquiries I have to do before I get back to you.  I've done the first one,
and am waiting for a response.  I'll keep you up to date.
My apologies for the delay.  This week MIT is off for Spring break.
Please go ahead with your Drop Box internship, and the plan that you have
outlined below.  I appreciate that you've worked hard on your undergraduate degree,
and would like a break to both see your girlfriend and to get the feel of a start up.
That break is important in order to re-energize yourself for graduate studies
I have been looking into the CS policy on deferrals.  Deferrals aren't that common;
you are the first student who has asked me to defer, out of maybe 100 students I have
supervised.  But CS students have been allowed to defer by other faculty, as long as
the deferral is at most a semester, not a year.
The project that you are funded under starts in September, and runs for two years.  I've
talked to the other faculty and students, and they are okay for you to arrive late.  One
issue is that our project will be assessed for continued funding in 1 1/2 to 2 years.
For you and the group, this means that you'll need to hit the ground running when you arrive.
You're suggestion of engaging during the Fall, and arriving before the Spring semester
begins should work out well.
The other issue is that the contract is for two years.  They might allow us to extend the end
date a semester.  If not, we can always have you be a teaching assistant (TA) for a course, such
as my autonomy and decision making course.  This is a good experience, and lots of students
in my group like to TA one semester.
I put a request into the Computer Science department to see if they would allow you to
formally register mid semester.  I'll let you know what I find out, but I wouldn't be surprised
if its not allowed.  In this case we can do what you suggest.
When do you plan to have your Drop Box internship end?  An alternative for the fall would be
to have you spend some time with the micro-grid group at Google, once the Drop box internship
ends.  Let me know if this option interests you.  If so, we can decide whether or not that is
better than, for example, coming to MIT as you suggestion.
Please let me know if you would like to discuss this further by phone, or if email is find.
You can also text me to bring an issue to my attention.  For example, a text saying "Just sent you an urgent email.".
I very much look forward to working with you!
Sounds good.  We will have time to iterate on a plan.  Let me introduce you to Dan, a PhD student in my group.
You'll be working with Dan on the energy project.  Dan can also help to answer your questions and help to
familiarize you with the group.
I hope you had a good time during your visit.  Sorry I could meet you in person, but I was out at JPL, visiting some former students and colleagues on the Curiosity rover operations team.  Do you want to email me with some questions?  We can then plan to talk by phone.
I'm delighted to hear from you.  I'm in San Francisco now at a workshop on resilient computing
and will be flying back to Boston late tonight.
Why don't we talk by phone on Friday at 3:30pm EST.  Does that work for you?  If not,
let me know what other times you are available, and I'll see if we have a match.

